SAM THOROGOOD: Hey, everyone.
Sam here.
On this episode of the
Santa Tracker series,
I want to talk a
little bit about GIFs,
MP4s, and just generally
saving your users bandwidth.
Let's have a look.
So this episode heavily features
one of my favorite scenes.
It's called Present Bounce.
It really brings me
back to my youth.
You can drop conveyor belts on
the screen and press buttons
to have a present roll
into Santa's sack.
You've also got bouncy
things and stuff like that.
Sometimes I can do
this level in one try.
Not quite this time.
So one thing you
might have noticed
when we loaded this scene,
and I've just reloaded it now,
is we get these tutorial cards.
Well, wait a second.
They only show up
if a user doesn't do
the thing we want them to do.
So in this case it's
telling the user
to drag the conveyor
belt on to the screen.
Cool.
I'll do that.
The tutorial will now go away.
If we wait a few more
seconds we'll actually
see a few other tutorials.
So we've got a few
bits and pieces of,
you need to click the
conveyor to change it.
And you also need to press
the button to start the level.
What I want to pick on
is that in previous years
these were actually GIFs.
And if you look at
this figure here,
this 2 megabyte GIF
picture, in previous years
if the user downloaded
this tutorial image,
they'd actually download
2 megabytes of GIF.
And this came from a good place.
In Santa Tracker we tend to
avoid having a lot of text.
We much prefer using
iconography and animation
to show a user what to do.
We don't want you to
have to read a lot
to really sit down and play.
So we had this GIF,
which was great.
Now, what we can actually
do thanks to browser
advancements is
send an MP4 down.
There's one catch.
If you have an MP4, you
can have it auto play,
but not if it has audio.
This works really well, right?
Because this GIF
doesn't actually
have any audio
lining up with it.
We just want to
show an animation.
What we actually do is we
converted this animation
directly to an MP4.
We actually use an online tool.
You can Google for a couple.
Although most of
them are just front
ends to the open
source tool, FFMPEG.
So if you have GIFs that
already work and you like them,
you can just typically
convert them.
One problem you
might have though
is that these GIFs end up
having no transparencies.
It's a nice property of
a GIF that actually it
can have transparent pixels.
So this matches our
little cloud effect.
So let's talk about how
we achieve that effect.
The video isn't transparent.
So how do we add this cloud
effect around the edges?
So let's have a look again.
So if we look at
our source code,
we can see that we've
actually got a video element
inside our Santa
tutorial element, which
is a thing that manages
these clouds which
you see on the page.
This video tag is
actually not displayed.
If you look at our CSS you
can see that it's actually
displaying none.
The user actually never
sees the video as it is.
So you can see here we
have an on play handler.
This is the Polymer syntax
for adding an event listener
in code.
So this just basically means
video element.addeventlistener
play.
So whenever that happens,
we call blit to canvas.
Play is called every frame that
the video is played or drawn.
And so what we do, whenever
the video is played,
so we actually take it,
we reset the canvas,
and then we actually
do a couple of things.
Firstly, as you can see here,
we blit our shadow image.
That's the little
shape that we want
to have this video fit into.
We then turn that
actually to white.
For various reasons that shadow
starts out as black for us.
We then draw the video using
a certain composite operation.
And what that basically
means is that we'll only
draw things within that
shadow that we already have.
So we blit the video,
which is the current frame.
We can literally just say V,
which is our video element.
And we can literally
draw it to the canvas.
And now we have this
lovely video playing here
that's actually playing
in a different element,
being drawn to the canvas
right in front of us
with no real performance
loss whatsoever.
And this video, most
interestingly enough,
is only about 80 kilobytes
compared to 2 megs.
Obviously this is the worst
possible case I could find.
We've got a few examples of
maybe a couple hundred k,
down to 20k or 30k.
And actually
another challenge we
face is that many of our GIFs
were already highly compressed.
And when GIFs compress,
what actually happens is you
get a lot of blitting and
spots around the edges.
So it turns out putting
them into FFMPEG
isn't really useful,
because it's actually
going to try to maintain that
weird compression that you kind
of saw in that asset.
So unfortunately, there
are some of our GIFs
that we don't have
the source code to,
which we can't really fix.
So we're kind of stuck with
them for a bunch of reasons.
If you look at our
tutorial folder here,
we've got a code
boogie.gif file.
And if you look
at this image, you
can see that there's a few
artifacts around the edges.
So this one's only 200k,
which still feels like a lot.
But actually turning
into an MP4 makes it
even bigger, which
is kind of a pain.
But we don't have
the asset for this.
So we're not going to
bother fixing this for now.
So as well as converting
our GIFs to MP4s
to make them smaller, we also do
a few other compression things
on our media to
make them better.
So for PNGs, we use PNG Crush
Zopfli to make them smaller.
And for SVGs, we use
SVGO, and occasionally
a bit of manual
tweaking to make sure
that they're the
smallest they can be.
So Santa Tracker has a ton
of SVGs throughout its site.
The trees, the cute houses,
and things like that.
But we often find that
they are way too detailed
for the screen being drawn at.
We originally used an
asset when it was this big.
And now it's this big.
So we'll often make sure we
reduce the amount of detail
we send down to the user.
Because if they're
not going to see it,
it's not worth
putting in our SVG.
And a tool like SVGO
doesn't really know that.
It just tries to
make them compressed.
If you are curious
about the approach
we took today to play
video and draw a mask
around it, be sure to check
out some of the links below.
This isn't a new practice
we've done for Santa Tracker,
but we've hopefully taken it and
used it in a really nice way.
So thanks for watching, and I'll
see you on the next episode.
You can subscribe to the
Google Chrome developer channel
down here, or check out some
other great videos along here.
[SLEIGH BELLS]